Thank you.
Hello, everyone.
My name is Karolina, and together with Havi today, we will tell you about how
Invinio-RDM is unlocking research data management.
But before we start, I would like to ask you if you see any connection between
those three images, and is anyone able to answer that quiz?
And Luisa says that you have three seconds to do so.
Those are cuts.
No, no, sorry.
So what about now?
Sorry?
Yes, you're close.
So the common, the connection between the images is that is CERN, actually, where the
World Wide Web was invented.
It's located in Switzerland, so fondue and chocolate.
And that's because you can see the funny pictures of the Internet of the Cuts.
Thanks to World Wide Web Invention.
But it's not the only thing that we do at CERN.
So we are housing the biggest machine in the world, the Large Hadron Collider, and many
more machines which experiments are using.
And also we are sharing our knowledge and welcoming visitors.
So wherever you are in Geneva, Switzerland, please pay us a visit.
We do much more than only physics at CERN.
So we do also open source projects, like, for example, the World Wide Web, that it was
given back to the public.
But that's not the only one.
And this is what we are talking about today.
So it's Zenodo, which I have been told that some of you know already, but you probably
don't know what's in VINIA-RDM.
But I will start with Zenodo.
So Zenodo is an old-purpose research repository that any researcher around the world can just
go and store their research results for free.
And it is hosted there at CERN as long as CERN exists.
So the question is, why do we need such a place?
And this is the answer.
So very important, up to plus, the crucial scientific data, many years of research work
inside.
Well, we don't want to allow this to happen ever again.
So we provide a safe space for storing data for the researchers.
But not only researchers.
We have also integration with GitHub.
So you can cite your software, stored in GitHub.
And what's the advantage of storing it also in Zenodo is that GitHub allows you to delete
your software, but it will be preserved in Zenodo.
And we have received many questions about the platform, if it's possible, to take it
and install it as it is in another institution.
So up to a point, it was not possible.
But we have received so many questions that in the end, we have developed another platform,
which is InvinioRDM, now the engine of Zenodo.
Now it is possible to easily upgrade the software, install a new version, and we are basically
supporting the underlying engine.
So, Havi, if you were to characterize InvinioRDM with one word, what would you say?
That's a good question.
So you have to use one word, I would say, that InvinioRDM is fair.
And when we talk about the concept of fairness, I'd like to quote our former director general,
San Roth-Litter, who once said, why do I like Zenodo?
Because Zenodo is fair, fair in the sense of lower case and fair in the sense of upper case.
The most conventional use of fairness, which was already covered by this first part of the presentation,
is like equitable or just.
Now let's see how InvinioRDM embraces and promotes the fair principles that are,
that is an acronym that stands for Findability, Accessibility, Interoperability, and Redusability.
So starting with the first one about Findability, when we upload our research,
one of the key things is that we want to have a link that we will make sure that it will resolve over time,
that it's not going to be broken.
And for that purpose, we have DOIs, which is a digital object identifier,
which is a globally unique and persistent identifier.
We encourage people to use their own DOIs if they have one,
otherwise there will be one automatically generated and registered using, registered in data site.
It's as important to have a nice metadata.
That's why we adopted the data site metadata schema, which is simple,
yet a powerful format to describe nearly any research output, data sets, software,
as she mentioned, journal, papers, anything you can think of.
And of course, to find out all this data, we need a good search engine with capabilities,
such as filtering options or search variations or powerful query syntax
that will allow you to find the data even without the identifier.
So these are key aspects, not only for humans to find data, but also machines.
So if we continue about accessibility, a very common use case is that we have our data
and we want to keep it restricted, but we want still people to find the data.
For that purpose, you will make your metadata public,
and if people want to access the data, they will have to request access via a simple form,
and then you can choose if you want to grant access or not.
In the same way, you can also share different links with different permissions levels
that will allow people to view the record and the non-pullished versions
or even edit to make collaboration easier.
Now if we talk about interoperability, one key thing is to follow standards.
That's why we follow the one I mentioned, the data site metadata schema,
which includes things like common vocabularies,
which will allow us to have the same concepts to describe data
as other people do and other machines do,
so that we make sure that everyone will understand it in the same way.
Another important thing is that when we upload our work,
we have to link it properly with other data that is also uploaded,
and you can do it very easily as well.
And if we talk about how machines exchange data,
we also provide a strong REST API that allows you to build your own data,
build your own integrations of top of the Miner-DM,
and we also have an integrated YPMH server,
which is a standard in how systems exchange data.
If we talk about the reusability, I think one of the key aspects is that
when people use our work, we want them to cite it correctly.
So here you have different styles of citation that will always include a DUI.
The DUI is very important also to track the impact of your work.
If you remember, she talked about software citation.
We know that 85% of all software citation is on Senado.
And of course, having also a clear licensing information,
it's also important so that people know how they can use your data under what conditions.
And I want again to stress a little bit on the metadata,
so having a rich and comprehensive metadata is very important
not only for people to reuse their data,
but maybe for people to also reproduce it in the future.
And since we are talking about the reusability,
do you think there is something else that we can reuse?
Yes, we can reuse the whole software entirely.
So these are examples of how InvinioRDM was reused with other institutions,
with our other partners, and as you can see, it's very customizable.
Those interfaces are very different from each other,
so it's quite flexible if you would like to join this sizable community,
that it's still growing.
We have many partners around the world.
And if you would like to install an institutional repository,
also in your institution, you can get to know more about InvinioRDM
under this QR code on the right side.
Also, you could pass by our booth, it's in the building K, floor 2,
floor 2nd, and if you are a developer who would like to contribute
to Open Source Project, you can check out our community on Discord as well.
We answer questions, and you can see also a growing community there.
So thank you very much.
So are there any questions?
Thank you very much for the talk.
I already know it, and I like it, by the way.
But I have only one specific question for the...
You also said, you have plans to support the process with mixed licenses.
Software is usually not just one license,
there's a lot of SPDX expressions or something like that.
Okay, I will just repeat the question for the stream.
So we also were told that it's like our repository,
I think that's worth to mention.
So the question was, if we plan to provide more licenses,
so I think we were very fast here on the slide.
There are already many standard licenses that you can find,
and they're available, but also it can be customized.
So whatever license you need, you can add to the software.
If there are more licenses, you have a data file under CC4, CC by 4,
and draft code under MIT,
so then you cannot simply say from the outside this is only MIT or CC by,
so then you need a list or CC by and MIT or something.
Okay, you mean if there are multiple values for the licenses attached to one record,
do I understand correctly?
Okay, if I remember correctly, it was no?
You can have multiple licenses.
Yes, so you can have multiple licenses, but you cannot map it one to one.
You cannot say for the file is this license and for the metadata is this license,
so it's not there.
Okay, thank you.
I think the question is, if I archive the software in Zenodo,
how long does the software is preserved in Zenodo?
So the question was for how long is the software preserved in Zenodo?
So the answer is as long as we have data center at CERN,
as long as CERN exists.
Okay, but what is the commitment of CERN in order to organize in terms of how long it will last?
Well, in terms of contract, can I?
Well, for now we say forever, but let's see what future holds.
We'll see if the sun goes out.
Sorry?
Yes.
Hello.
I am, sorry, out of those compared to other data in photos at CERN,
is it more specified for scientists' researches?
Or...
So what I think the question is,
is that if it's targeted on one area,
that's this what you meant, of research whatsoever?
Yes.
So it is not targeted, because it's very, like we said, it's reusable.
So we have, for example, universities also installing the software
and keeping it as institutional repositories,
but these universities might differ in the domain.
So it might be, for example, Northwestern University, but then they host many domains.
They do a lot of research.
We have also installations at CERN, like one is an ODA and one an internal one,
an institutional repository, which we are in the process of migration right now
to upgrade the version of the software.
But I can also, like, come back to hear there are much more many usages.
So it's not targeted to simple domain.
Okay.
Next time again, there's another theme.
Thank you.